Hi, everyone.
Welcome to Intermediate TypeScript v2.
My name is Mike North.
I've been a Frontend Masters
instructor for nine years now.
I'm a principal staff engineer at Stripe,
and
I'm the architect of their
developer platform division.
So if you use Stripe's SDKs or
any of the dev tools we make available to
our customers,
that's my team that works on that.
We do a lot of TypeScript projects at
Stripe, and I'm happy to package some
of that knowledge from using TypeScript at
scale and give it to you in this course.
And also we use types internally to
discuss the way our public API works.
TypeScript is great for
describing shapes of things and
API semantics, and it's kind of
a great language to discuss and
define types that you may not use
the TypeScript language for that.
But it's a very concise representation for
that kind of thing.
So, basically, I live and
breathe types as part of my job.
Some goals for this course, so I hope to
take some of the knowledge I have from
teaching over 100 TypeScript workshops and
spending thousands of hours pair
programming with people and helping teams
reach successful outcomes with TypeScript.
Have to package that up and
give that to you in this short course.
And more important than just
covering language features and
things that are possible with TypeScript
5, I hope we can together through this
time build a mental model and a framework
for thinking about how TypeScript works.
That way, when new features land
in TypeScript 6, and TypeScript 7,
you kind of know how to think about it,
and it's easier to understand how all of
these pieces fit together if
you have the right foundations.
And I hope to help you form that today.
We're gonna deal a lot with the utility
types that are built into TypeScript.
So if you've ever seen something like
partial, or pick, or record, those kinds
of things, by the end of this course, you
will understand exactly how those work.
We're even gonna look at
how they're implemented so
we can get some good practice.
Taking something like a utility type and
picking it apart and
understanding it in depth,
that's a very useful skill.
This is probably a pretty
scary piece of code here.
If you're not used to looking at this,
it's a little bit intimidating.
There's a lot of syntax, there
are a lot of capital letters in there.
By the end of this course,
you'll understand everything
that's going on here.
And we will have together, with hands-on
experience taken things like this,
picked them apart into smaller pieces so
that we can understand what's
going on step by step.
And then we can put it
all back together and
learn how to reason about the overall
behavior you're seeing here.
So by the end of the course,
I hope you'll be able to look at this, and
you may not be able to sort of see
the matrix or what it is here.
But you'll be able to certainly take
pieces out and say, all right, here's
the index access type, and here's the maps
type, and here's the conditional type.
And okay, if I put these together,
here's what I get.
So what do I assume you already know?
Well, you should be pretty experienced,
fairly experienced with modern JavaScript,
and
that means you know how to use classes,
you know how to use async/await.
We're not gonna do something
incredibly exotic.
We're not gonna use proxies or
anything like that but any,
any mainstream JavaScript,
I assume you already know.
You should also have either taken
the TypeScript Fundamentals course or
have equivalent experience.
So we're gonna kind of pick up right from
where the TypeScript Fundamentals course
left off.
And that means you should have some
experience knowing how variables,
objects, arrays have,
all those things are typed.
And I also assume that you have
a little bit of experience at least
doing the most basic level of generics and
type parameters.
A lot of what we're gonna discuss
today builds upon that concept.
And we're gonna start
digging into it from there.
This course may be a little bit
challenging to understand if you're just
getting started with TypeScript.
So I would encourage you, if you start
taking this course and it feels like
it's a little bit of a steep learning
curve, it's okay to sort of press pause.
Maybe do a couple exercises,
a little bit of learning on your own,
get more comfortable, and you should feel
fine coming back in trying it again.
The idea here is to sort of take you
from being able to understand some basic
TypeScript code, that's the goal
of the fundamentals course.
And here we're trying to
take you to the point where
you almost comprehensively
understand the language, or
at least the various things that
are available to you in language.
So the learning curve gets
a little bit steeper.
Don't feel bad if you have to come and
try again when you'll feel easier
the more experience you get.
So let's talk a little bit about
setting up the workshop project.
First, if you just learn best by kind of
watching somebody else go through examples
and maybe taking notes, all you'll need
to access is the course website that
you're reading right now, which you
can find at typescript-training.com.
And you'll need to be able to access
the official TypeScript website.
What you'll see is that a lot of the code
snippets that we use in the course,
they will have a little button
in the lower right corner.
I don't have a great example.
Here it is.
This Try button here,
clicking this will actually take you
to the official TypeScript playground
where that example that we were just
looking at is pre-populated for you here.
And this is a live environment
you can mess around in here.
You could introduce an error, and
TypeScript will give you red squiggles
like it does in Visual Studio Code.
So that's one way you
could take this course.
You could even do that on an iPad or
something.
If you learn best by doing real hands-on
coding in Visual Studio Code or
an IDE of your choice,
you can check out the course repo.
And first,
you're going to need to install Volta.
So Volta is a JavaScript
tool chain manager.
And the purpose of including Volta in
this project, it's to make sure we're
all using the same version of Node, and
we're using the same version of Yarn.
So the Node version that we're using for
this course and
Volta will take care of this
behind the scenes if you use it.
But if you were to set it up on your own,
you don't want to install Volta, you just
need to make sure you're using Node 18,
which is the latest LTS release of Node.
It's the one that they would advise
you use in production today, right?
They always say use the latest LTS,
not the most modern version.
For Yarn, we're using version 3.6.4.
As of the time of recording,
there are some 4.0 release candidates.
We're not playing with release candidates,
we're just using Yarn 3.
It's important you don't use Yarn 1.
We're going to touch on some things
that involve the modern version of Yarn,
which is a totally separate
code base from Yarn 1.
Okay, so once you've installed Volta, and
make sure you follow the installation
instructions that you'll see both on the
website, it's very simple instructions.
Sorry, I'll go back here.
That's it, there you go,
that's the full set.
Once you install that, make sure you also
pay attention to any instructions you may
see in the CLI from
running those commands.
Sometimes it will say we need you to
close your terminal and reopen a new one.
That's because it's putting some
things in your .bashrc or your .zshrc.
And you need to sort of like start a new
terminal session, so that's picked up and
everything works the way it's supposed to.
You can then run this command which
will install the node LTS and
the latest Yarn 3 release.
To be honest, we're probably not
very sensitive to node here,
we're just using it to build things.
Even if the LTS is different in
the future, it should still work.
But in case you're having problems,
Node 18 is what we're using.
So once you have all that done,
you can clone the GitHub repo.
And if you've already taken
the fundamentals V4 course on
Frontend Masters, this is the same repo.
You have a head start,
you are already set up.
It's just a different folder
in the exact same repo.
But you'd clone this project,
you'd enter the directory for
the project, and then you'd run Yarn.
Once you've done all that, you can head
to this folder within the project, and
that's where we will be doing
most of our hands-on work.
When I'm showing you
my Visual Studio Code,
that's where I'm going to be operating.
And just to show you what that looks like,
you can see here we have a bunch
of numbered files and folders.
Those each correspond to a chapter of this
course addressing a particular topic,
so this is what you should see.
This is in packages, notes, intermediate
TypeScript V2, and then the source folder.